AUGMENTATION
Cyberware and bioware augmentations are every-
where in 2075. For the rich, the poor, and everyone in
between, bodyshops on every street corner offer minor
modifications at your convenience, legally and other-
wise. Even the gang-bangers on those street corners
might be equipped with cybernetic vision, hearing en-
hancements, or datajacks.
Besides their wireless functionality, almost all cyber-
ware devices are equipped with a neural interface (not
to be confused with DNI) that lets you mentally activate
and control their functions. You can use this in place of
wireless control, preventing wireless hacking, as long as
all of the “moving parts” are connected to your nervous
system. An item that has a wireless bonus, however, can
only gain that full level of functionality if wireless func-
tionality is active.
CYBERWARE AND BIOWARE GRADES
Cyberware and bioware implants are available in five dis-
tinct grades: standard, alphaware, betaware, deltaware,
and used. Only standard, alphaware, and used implants
are available for purchase at character creation. The prices
for cyberware and bioware presented in this chapter are
for standard ‘ware. When purchasing implants of other
grades, apply the Essence Cost, Cost, and Availability ad-
justments as noted on the Implant Grades table.
All accessories and add-ons must be of the same
grade as the implant to which they are added.
CYBERSURGERY AND RECOVERY TIME
Getting cyberware and bioware installed hurts. When
you have an augmentation implanted (after character cre-
ation), your Physical and Stun Condition Monitors each
take a number of boxes of damage equal to the item’s
Essence Cost x 3 (but never into overflow). Most cyber-
clinics and body shops offer recovery rooms for patients
to rest and heal up after cybersurgery, but beware the
sterility and cleanliness of the less-reputable chop shops.
HEADWARE
These small complex devices are inserted into the head
and typically constructed via less-invasive nanosur-
gery. Items that have a Capacity Cost [in brackets] may
be installed in cyberlimbs instead, costing Capacity
rather than Essence.
Commlink: The implanted version of the commlink
(p. 438) comes with a sim module at no additional cost.
An integral headware commlink is popular with corpo-
rate operatives, company men, and sararimen on the
go. Generally speaking, commlinks with a Device Rat-
ing of less than 5 are not installed inside your skull, for
security reasons.
Control rig: This implant harnesses the raw data-co-
ordinating and synchronization power of the middle
brain for the express purpose of directly manipulating
rigged vehicles and drones (and other devices with rig-
ger interface, like turrets). It has a built-in sim module, so
you can use it for DNI with other devices. It also comes
with a universal data connector and about a meter of
retractable cable (it’s like getting a free datajack). When
you’re jumped into a vehicle or drone, the control rig
provides its Rating as a dice pool bonus on all Vehicle
skill tests. Additionally, the rating of your control rig is
added to the Handling and Speed of any vehicle you are
jumped into. As if that was not enough, your Vehicle Test
thresholds are reduced by the rating of your control rig
(to a minimum of 1), again when you’re jumped in.
Cortex bomb: An illegal method of coercion, cranial
bombs come in three flavors: kink, microbomb, and area
bomb. Kink bombs are designed to damage only part
of the victim’s head, either rendering specific headware
useless or damaging the brain to cause blindness, stut-
tering, hearing loss, or some other trauma. Of course,
sometimes when something in your head explodes, things
don’t go exactly as planned and the result is a bit … much.
The microbomb version is just powerful enough to kill the
unfortunate bearer. Area cranial bombs kill the victim, and
they also affect a blast area exactly like a fragmentation
grenade (p. 434). The bombs can be remote- or time-det-
onated, or even set to discharge by sound recognition. If
installed in cyberlimbs, these bombs are designed to de-
stroy specific components (kink), the entire limb (regular),
or blast the area and damage the bearer (microbomb).
Cyberdeck: Simply put, you’ve got a deck in your
body. This is a very convenient for ther hacker on the go
and is often sported by G-men and military deckers.
Datajack: A datajack gives you a direct neural inter-
face (p. 222), which can be handy in a lot of situations.
It also comes with a retractable spool of micro-cable
(about a meter long) that lets you directly interface
with any electronic device via a universal access cable.
Datajacks are equipped with their own cache of storage
memory for downloading or saving files. Two datajack
users can string a fiberoptic cable between themselves
to conduct a private mental communication immune to
radio interception or eavesdropping.
Wireless: The datajack gives you Rating 1 noise re-
duction.
Data Lock: This special datajack is popular with cou-
riers, spies, diplomatic aids, and executive liasions. Ef-
fectively, it turns the character in whom it is installed into
a walking data safe. The data lock has a Device Rating
equal to its own rating, and it protects the data from any-
one not authorized to access it (possibly including you).
Data locks are not wireless enabled; they can only be
accessed via universal data connector. In fact the bearer
of the implant doesn’t have mental access to the data—
they’re only a carrier.
Olfactory Booster: This cybersnout enhances, iden-
tifies, and records smells, and can play them back later.
The massively enhanced olfactory capabilities of a sniff-
er open up a whole new world of sensory data to you—
you’ll be able to sense things that ordinarily only a scent-
hound would. You can smell people’s emotions in their
sweat (and if applicable, the maker’s mark of their tailored
pheromones), traces of ammunition propellant, explo-
sives, or biological and chemical warfare compounds—
the list goes on and on. A cut-off function allows you
to completely ignore intense odors, possibly the most
convenient feature for use in your daily life. The olfactory
booster can even be used in VR to create an even more
immersive experience. Add the booster’s rating as a dice
pool modifier to your scent-based Perception Tests.
Simrig: An implanted version of the simrig described
on p. 439, this headware implant allows you to record sen-
sory data for later replay (or sale if you’re really interesting).
Skilljack: This headware interprets knowsofts and lin-
guasofts for your brain so you can use them as though
they were your own. It can also run activesofts, but they
only act as Knowledge Skills unless you have skillwires
(p. 455). The total of all skills running on a skilljack can-
not exceed its Rating x 2, and the maximum Rating for
a skill is the skilljack’s Rating. Starting skills from storage
and stopping skills is a Free Action. You can’t use Edge
with skills you have through a skilljack. If you have more
than one skilljack, only one of them can operate at a time.
Wireless: The extra boost from the Matrix increases
the total Rating limit to the skilljack’s Rating x 3.
Taste Booster: The taste booster performs the same
function as the olfactory booster, except that it enhanc-
es your taste buds. The taste booster also lets you expe-
rience gustatory data in AR and VR environments with a
“taste track”—caveat emptor on that one, chummer. Ap-
ply the taste booster’s rating as a dice pool bonus to any
Perception Test involving taste.
Tooth Compartment: The oldest cyberware on the
market, these hollow teeth come in storage and break-
able models. The storage model is used to smuggle real-
ly, really tiny contraband, the size of a datachip or a real-
ly small RFID tag. Items can be removed with a wireless
signal or hidden catch. The breakable model triggers a
linked effect (such as starting a tracking signal, or releas-
ing deadly poison into your mouth—make sure you re-
member which is which!) with a wireless signal, or it may
trigger when you bite down hard on the tooth.
Ultrasound Sensor: This cyberware is exactly like the
ultrasound sensor. When active, it replaces your normal
vision. It can be switched between active sonar, passive
sonar, and off with a Free Action.
Voice Modulator: This implant gives you perfect
pitch and enormous vocal flexibility and distortion ca-
pabilities. You can speak with an increased volume (up
to 100 decibels) without strain, shift your pitch to make
perfect bird calls or mellifluous singing, and most im-
portantly, uncanny vocal impressions. The modulator
can also play back (and more or less perfectly imitate) a
recorded or captured voice. Add the Rating of the mod-
ulator to your dice pool for Impersonation skill tests.
EYEWARE
Probably the most common piece of cyberware avail-
able in 2075 is cybereyes. Originally designed to gift
the blind with normal sight, cybereyes allow for far
more than normal human vision. While they still car-
ry a social stigma in places, and the idea continues
to carry a degree of squeamishness about it, it’s not
entirely uncommon for people with perfectly good
natural eyes to trade them out for cybernetic replace-
ments. Cybereyes are available in any shape or color,
from “almost natural” to all chrome to solid glowing
purple and everything in between. Some models have
their color and pattern easily altered by downloading
a new skin.
Most cybereye modifications are also offered as ret-
inal modifications to the natural eye. Vision enhance-
ments either take up Capacity in cybereyes or Essence
in natural eyes, not both. As a general rule, upgrades are
applied to both eyes so that the user’s vision doesn’t be-
come unbalanced.
Cybereyes: The basic cybereyes system features
20/20 vision for both eyes, an image link, and a built-in
camera at no extra cost, as well as capacity for vision
enhancements.
Flare compensation: An implanted version of the
flare compensation enhancement (p. 444).
Image link: An implanted version
of the image link enhancement (p.
444).
Low-light vision: An implanted
version of the low-light vision en-
hancement (p. 444).
Ocular drone: This enhancement
only affects one eyeball per purchase.
A small spyball drone is placed in your
ocular cavity. The spyball functions as a
normal cybereye (with all the relevant
enhancements) until you remove it and
control it as though it were a Horizon
Flying Eye (p. 465). When it’s out and
you have only one eye, you suffer a
–3 dice pool penalty to all tasks. If you
replace both eyes with drones, you’re
effectively blind while those drones
are operating apart from you. An ocu-
lar drone is obviously not available as a
retinal modification.
Retinal duplication: This highly il-
legal modification can be loaded with
a recording of someone else’s retina
to create an almost perfect reproduc-
tion. Make an Opposed Test between
the retinal duplication Rating and the
retinal scanner Rating (Security De-
vices, p. 362).
Smartlink: An implanted version of
the smartlink vision enhancement (p.
444). Note that a smartlink installed in a natural eye or in
a pair of cybereyes is more effective than a smartlink in-
stalled in an external device: see Smartgun System, p. 444.
Thermographic vision: An implanted version of the
thermographic vision enhancement (p. 444).
Vision enhancement: An implanted version of vi-
sion enhancement (p. 444).
Vision magnification: An implanted version of the
vision magnification enhancement (p. 444).
EARWARE
Earware, like eyeware, is available either with complete
cybernetic replacements (with the modifications cost-
ing Capacity) or as a direct modification to the inner
ear, costing essence. As a rule, upgrades are installed
in both ears to prevent an imbalance of hearing.
Cyberears: Ordinarily, cyberears replace only the
inner ear, although the whole thing can be replaced
as well if you like. Cyberears offer hearing with normal
ranges (like an omni-directional microphone), a sound
link, and Capacity for modifications and enhancements.
Audio enhancement: An implanted version of audio
enhancement (p. 445).
Balance augmenter: The balance augmenter en-
hances the inner ear’s natural balance mechanism. You
receive one bonus die on all tests involving balance,
such as climbing, walking across a narrow platform,
landing after a jump, and so on.
Damper: This implant protects the user from sudden
increases in sound as well as damaging sound levels.
The damper adds a +2 dice pool bonus to resisting sonic
attacks, including flashbangs.
Select sound filter: An implanted version of the se-
lect sound filter audio enhancement, with the difference
that the maximum available Rating is 6 instead of 3.
Sound link: The audio equivalent of image link, sound
link can play audio (recordings, movie soundtracks, mu-
sic, etc.) from linked sources within the
user’s PAN (or headware memory, or
datajack) directly into the user’s cy-
berears. A sound link is a common com-
ponent of immersive AR environments,
adding a sonic component.
Spatial recognizer: An implanted
version of the spatial recognizer en-
hancement.
BODYWARE
Bodyware covers the goods to make
you stronger, faster, better protected,
and altogether more robotic, if that’s
your thing. Bodyware cannot be in-
stalled into cyberlimbs unless it has a
Capacity cost [in brackets]. Bodyware
with a Capacity cost can be installed
in cyberlimbs, costing capacity rather
than Essence.
Bone lacing: Your bones are laced
with lattice chains of reinforcing plas-
tics or metals, improving their integri-
ty and tensile strength (and adding to
your body’s overall weight). Bone lacing
comes in three types: plastic, aluminum,
and titanium—you can only have one in-
stalled at a time. It gives you extra Body
for resisting physical damage, a little Ar-
mor (cumulative with other Armor, with-
out adding to Encumbrance), and chang-
es your unarmed combat damage, all
listed in the Bone Lacing table. Bone lac-
ing is incompatible with other augmen-
tations that add to or alter your bones
(such as bone density augmentation).
Dermal plating: Hard plastic and
ceramic fiber plates are bonded to the
user’s skin. The plates are clearly visible,
and are even more obvious to the touch,
but they can be cosmetically stylized for
color and surface texture. Dermal plat-
ing gives you bonus Armor equal to its
Rating (cumulative with other Armor,
without adding to Encumbrance). Der-
mal plating cannot be combined with other augmenta-
tions to the skin that provide armor, including orthoskin.
Fingertip compartment: This compartment is hid-
den in the hollowed out last joint of one finger, with a
catch that allows the fingernail to be lifted up as an ac-
cess panel, or the entire fingertip removed. A fingertip
compartment allows the storage of micro-sized items,
like a micro-drone, RFID tag, or datachip. Inserting or re-
moving an object takes one Complex Action. Items held
within are completely concealed, and the compartment
itself has Concealability –10.
One popular trick is to use a fingertip compartment
to hold a monofilament whip (p. 422), with the fingertip
acting as control weight. Extending a monofilament whip
from a fingertip compartment takes a Simple Action, while
spooling it back up requires one Complex Action. There’s
no telling how many actions it will take for people to stop
being impressed at what just came out of your finger.
Wireless: Inserting or removing an item in a fingertip
compartment takes a Simple Action.
Grapple gun: This is an implanted version of the
grapple gun described on p. 449. It doesn’t store any
rope inside it, but you can attach an external rope before
you shoot the grapple.
Internal air tank: The internal air tank replaces part
of one lung with a pressurized internal air reserve that
allows you to hold your breath for up to (Rating) hours.
This allows extended underwater operations and com-
plete protection from inhalation-vector toxin attacks as
long as you’re holding your breath. Activating or de-ac-
tivating the tank is a Simple Action. Refilling the air tank
with pressurized air through an intake valve (located un-
der your ribcage) takes five minutes, or you can refill it
through six hours of normal breathing.
Wireless: Activating or de-activating the tank is a Free
Action. You’re always aware of the tank’s exact air level
and purity.
Muscle replacement: Why take the time to exercise
when you can just install a physique? Vat-grown syn-
thetic muscles replace or augment your own, and cal-
cium treatments and skeletal reinforcement contribute
to your overall strength. It increases both your Strength
and Agility attributes by its rating. It cannot be combined
with other augmentations to the muscles, including
muscle augmentation or muscle toner bioware.
Reaction enhancers: By replacing specific, isolat-
ed vertebrae of your spinal column with segments of
superconducting material, your reactions to events be-
come quicker. Add the Rating of reaction enhancers to
your Reaction attribute (and remember to adjust Initiative
and Physical limit accordingly). Reaction enhancers are
incompatible with all other enhancements to Reaction,
including wired reflexes.
Wireless: Reaction enhancers are compatible with a
wireless wired reflexes system, and the total bonus Re-
action from the two augmentations can be above +4 if
both systems have wireless activated.
Skillwires: Skillwires are a system of neuromuscular
controllers that overlie the body’s natural nervous sys-
tem; they are capable of aiding or completely overriding
muscular movement, controlled by the “muscle mem-
ory” played through a skilljack (p. 452). This system
allows you to use activesofts with a rating up to your
skillwire’s rating, but only if that activesoft is running on
your implanted skilljack. Skillwires are incompatible with
reflex recorder bioware.
Wireless: With the skillwire’s memory cache expand-
ed, all the skills you use with it receive +1 to the relevant
inherent Limit (Physical, Mental, or Social).
Smuggling compartment: For items that won’t fit in
a fingertip but that you still can’t afford to have found,
smuggling compartments can be placed in parts of the
body that can be easily hollowed out/replaced. This
includes ribs and the space between them, hip bones,
shoulder blades, and so forth. These compartments can
allow the storage of small and mini-sized items (nothing
bigger than a light pistol typically; your gamemaster will
let you know if something’s too big). The compartment
has a Concealability of –10. Inserting or retrieving an ob-
ject requires a Complex Action.
Wireless: Inserting or retrieving an object takes a Sim-
ple Action.
Wired reflexes: This highly invasive, painful,
life-changing operation adds a multitude of neural boost-
ers and adrenaline stimulators in strategic locations
throughout your body work to catapult you into a whole
new world where everything around you seems to move
in slow motion. The system includes both manual and
wireless triggers to turn the wired reflexes on and off;
activating or deactivating the trigger manually requires a
Complex Action, doing so wirelessly is a Simple Action.
When activated, each rating point of wired reflexes gives
you +1 Reaction (and accompanying bonus to Initiative)
and +1D6 Initiative Die. Wired reflexes are incompatible
with augmentations that affect Reaction or Initiative.
Wireless: The system is compatible with wireless re-
action enhancers, and the total Reaction bonus from
both systems can be above +4 if both systems have
wireless active.
CYBERLIMBS
In today’s world of transplant-friendly bioware, the use
of cyberlimbs is sometimes viewed as crude and out-
dated. On the other hand, they are cheap and easy to
service and upgrade, so in the end they became even
more popular for the less fortunate. Since cyberlimbs
are more capable than most natural limbs, and you can
load them up with all sorts of wiz tech, this kind of cy-
berware has stayed in high demand.
Cyberskulls and –torsos are included in the “cyber-
limbs” category, though they are in fact shells rather
than full replacements (or actual limbs).
Cyberlimbs have their own Strength and Agility rat-
ings. When a particular limb is used for a test (such as
leading an attack with your cyberarm), use the attribute
for that limb (natural or cyber); in any other case, take the
average value of all limbs involved in the task. If a task
requires the careful coordination of several limbs, use the
value of the weakest limb. The attributes of partial limbs
(including cyberhands and –feet) may be enhanced, but
their attributes only apply for tests directly involving
those limbs (such as a Strength Test when gripping some-
thing with an enhanced cyberhand). Cyberlimbs cannot
hold any bioware, nor any cyber-implants that take up Es-
sence rather than Capacity. Essence cost, Capacity, and
other stats can be found on the Cyberlimb table.
Cyberlimbs have other useful features. They give
you 1 extra damage box on your Physical Condition
Monitor for each cyberlimb you possess (ignore hands
and feet, and partial limbs count for half a limb). They
have Capacity, letting you add cyberweapons and oth-
er cyber systems that have a Capacity cost [in brackets].
They can perform at superhuman levels with the right
enhancements. Cyberlimbs can be dangerous even
if they don’t have cyberweapons installed— their un-
armed Damage Value is (STR)P.
Cyberlimbs: These prosthetics are basic off-the-shelf
models. All standard cyberlimbs come with Strength
and Agility attributes of 3. These values can only be
augmented by cyberlimb enhancements, not other aug-
mentations.
Customization: You can have your cyberlimb tailored
and customized to your frame and musculature. Custom-
ization lets you add to your limb’s base Strength and/or
Agility ratings. Each increase of either attribute increases
the limb’s Availability and cost. If either of your limb’s at-
tributes are increased beyond your natural maximum for
that attribute, you can’t use the cyberlimb (so don’t over-
do it), but you can still add cyberlimb enhancements. You
customize your cyberlimb when you buy it; you can’t cus-
tomize it after purchase, but you can add enhancements.
Cyberlimbs may be either obvious or synthetic.
Obvious cyberlimbs: These implants are immedi-
ately recognizable as ar-
tificial limbs unless you
cover them with clothing.
They are often chromed
or matte colors but visi-
bly mechanical in nature.
Some folks like them
glaringly obvious and
outlandish, some find the
artificiality repellant and
disturbing. This can affect
your social dealings in
some circles, especially
upper-crust society and
the purist crowd.
Synthetic cyberlimbs:
Synthetic limbs are dis-
guised as natural limbs.
The fact that they’re cy-
bernetic gives them a –8
Concealability (the Cy-
bertechnology skill may
replace Perception for this
test) when someone’s just looking, but synthetic limbs are
obviously artificial to the touch.
CYBERLIMB
ENHANCEMENTS
Cyberlimb enhancements use up to the Capacity of the
cyberlimb they enhance. There are three types of en-
hancement: Agility, Armor, and Strength. Physical attri-
bute enhancements add their Rating to the appropriate
attribute of the limb. Armor enhancements provide an
Armor bonus equal to their rating, cumulative with oth-
er armor, without adding to Encumbrance. Each limb can
have only one enhancement of each type (you can’t stack
two Strength 3 enhancements in the same cyberarm), but
you can replace one you have with one you want.
CYBERLIMB ACCESSORIES
These items may only be installed in cyberlimbs; some
may only be installed in certain cyberlimbs.
Cyberarm gyromount: This accessory must be in-
stalled in a full or partial cyberarm. When activated, coun-
terweights pop out of your wrist and a small gyro spins
up to provide you with better balance and reduced recoil
for improving firing capability. Meanwhile, small children
stare at you. The effects are identical to a gyro stabiliza-
tion system (p. 432), only with Rating 3 (this effect is not
cumulative with a worn gyro stabilization system). Acti-
vating or deactivating the system is a Simple Action.
Wireless: Activating or deactivating the system is a
Free Action.
Cyberarm slide: An integral version of the hidden
arm-slide, the cyberarm slide hides a hold-out, taser, or
light pistol inside your cyberarm, concealing it from nor-
mal vision. As a Free Action, you can ready the weapon
in the slide.
Cyber holster: You can hold a taser or any pistol- or
smaller-sized weapon within the holster, completely en-
closed until you activate it. Inserting or retrieving a weap-
on takes one Simple Action. A cyber holster can also be
used as a smuggling compartment to store items no larg-
er than a pistol (the gamemaster has final discretion).
Wireless: Readying a weapon from the holster is a
Free Action.
Hydraulic jacks: This implant requires you to have
two cyberlegs with a hydraulic jack of identical Ratings
in each leg. Each Rating point adds a +1 to your Physical
limit for jumping and sprinting, adds twenty percent to
your maximum jump distance, and reduces your falling
distance by two meters for the purpose of calculating
falling damage.
Wireless: The jacks add a +1 dice pool bonus to tests
involving jumping, sprinting, or lifting with your legs.
Large smuggling compartment: This is a larger ver-
sion of the smuggling compartment (p. 455). It can hold
something the size of a heavy pistol or a small SMG
(gamemaster’s discretion—think breadbox size as a
guide). Getting something out of or putting something
into it takes a Complex Action.
Wireless: Getting something out of or putting some-
thing into it takes a Simple Action.
CYBER IMPLANT
WEAPONS
Cyber-implant weapons can be installed into cyberlimbs
or directly into the meat. They’re popular with the deni-
zens of urban wastelands like the Barrens, and with street
samurai who never want to go anywhere unarmed.
Cyberguns: Generally speaking, these are mount-
ed in a cyberarm or directly into a natural arm, but you
could install one in a leg or even your torso. Cyberguns
are distinct from cyber holsters in that the gun itself can
be controlled and fired directly, as an extension of your
body. Depending on the size of the gun, cyberguns take
up part of your forearm or replace your arm altogether,
with the functional parts of the arm built around the gun.
Smaller cyberguns fire through a hidden port in the palm
or knuckles, while larger cyberguns fold back the user’s
hand at the wrist.
For extra concealment, cyberguns are built from
mostly non-metallic compounds, and any metallic
parts are incorporated into the (cyber) arm’s structure.
All cyberguns have internal magazines (m) and can be
equipped with a hidden external ammo port. Howev-
er, once you attach a clip to the side of your forearm or
the back of your elbow, the cybergun becomes kind of
obvious. Laser sights and silencers/sound suppressors
are also available; other weapon accessories can’t be
installed in cyberguns. All cyberguns are pre-equipped
with smartgun systems (p. 433).
Cyber melee weapons: For a quarter of a centu-
ry now, cyber-implant melee weapons have been the
classic, favored toys of razor guys, from street muscle
to professional urban samurai. They are available as cy-
berarm upgrades, but can also be installed directly into
the flesh. Cyber weapons can be readied via muscle
flexture, neural impulse, or wireless signal. Attacks with
cyber melee weapons use Unarmed Combat skill and
the Physical limit.
Hand razors are blades two to three centimeters long,
made of chromed steel or carbon fiber. They either slide
out from beneath your fingernails or replace them en-
tirely. Hand blades slip out the side of the hand opposite
the thumb, parallel to the hand, and while they are uni-
versally thin and sharp, they come in a variety of shapes
and styles. Spurs are one to three blades or spikes pro-
truding from the back of your wrist or your knuckles,
sticking out from your fist as much as thirty centime-
ters. The shock hand is like a shock glove built into the
palm of your hand, perfect for inflicting a nasty shock to
anything it comes into contact with. Shock hands deal
Electricity damage (p. 170) and have ten charges in each
hand; when plugged in they recharge at a rate of one
charge per ten seconds.
BIOWARE
Bioware is subtler, more holistic, and less invasive than
cyberware, at the cost of being substantially pricier. In-
stead of replacing body parts with machines, bioware
augments the body’s own functions and integrates trans-
planted organs that function as natural features. The
application of biotechnology is a tricky business, as the
fine balance of homeostasis between the body’s organic
systems must be maintained. In the last decade, bionics
and bio-engineering techniques have taken bioware from
cutting edge to commonplace. Bioware is more expen-
sive monetarily, costs less Essence, and is much harder to
spot. Also—and we’d like to think this goes without say-
ing—bioware has no wireless capability at all.
Adrenaline pump: This enhanced gland is implanted
in the lower abdomen, connected to both supradrenal
glands. When dormant, the pump is merely a reservoir
for adrenaline. When activated, a small muscular sac con-
tracts, sending a surge of concentrated adrenaline into
the blood stream. Physical and emotional stress can force
your pump to activate if you fail a Composure Test (p.
152); otherwise you can trigger it as a Free Action.
While the pump is active, you ignore injury modifiers
and don’t fall unconscious, even if your Stun Condition
Monitor is filled. You can’t rest, but the adrenaline pump’s
Rating is added to your Strength, Agility, Reaction, and
Willpower attributes. The pump works for Rating x 1D6
Combat Turns (the pump can’t be switched off early).
When time’s up, you crash and take Stun damage equal
to the number of Combat Turns the pump was active (use
your natural Body + Willpower to resist the damage).
After the effects end, your attribute values return to
normal and you stop ignoring injury modifiers or uncon-
sciousness from Stun damage. After use, the pump re-
quires 1 hour to regenerate its supply. During that time, it
cannot be activated.
Bone density augmentation: The molecular struc-
ture of your bones is altered to increase density and
tensile strength. Ligaments are strengthened, and the
increased bone density increases your weight a bit. Your
Body attribute is increased by the bone density Rating
for the purpose of damage resistance tests. You also
deal Physical damage in unarmed combat, based on the
Rating of the augmentation (see the Bone Density Aug-
mentation table). Bone density augmentation is incom-
patible with other augmentations to the bones, includ-
ing bone lacing cyberware.
Cat’s eyes: These transgenic vat-grown implants are
very literally cats’ eyes with a modified DNA profile and
occipital connecting structures. The structure of cat’s eyes
amplifies light and enhances night vision, providing low-
light vision. Cat’s eyes are slit and reflective, just like, well,
a cat’s. This bioware is obviously not compatible with cy-
berware eye enhancements or replacements.
Enhanced articulation: A number of procedures like
joint-surface coating, re-lubrication, and tendon and
ligament augmentation lead to more fluid muscle and
joint action. Enhanced articulation provides you with a
+1 dice pool modifier to your Escape Artist skill and a
+1 increase to your Physical limit (cumulative with other
limit modifiers).
Muscle augmentation: This biological weaving treat-
ment enhances existing muscle tissue, rather than replac-
ing it with vat-grown muscles. Specially grown muscle
cables are woven into existing muscle fibers, enhancing
muscle mass and brute strength while providing a bulk-
ier look. Muscle augmentation adds its rating to your
Strength. This bioware is incompatible with augmenta-
tions that increase Strength, including the muscle re-
placements cyberware.
Muscle toner: This treatment increases muscle fi-
ber elasticity in existing muscle tension, resulting in in-
creased muscle tension and flexibility while providing a
smooth and ropy physique. Muscle toner adds its rating
to your Agility. This bioware is incompatible with aug-
mentations that increase Agility, including the muscle
replacements cyberware.
Orthoskin: A web of biofibers in the skin provides the
equivalent of personal armor while being virtually indis-
tinguishable from natural skin. Orthoskin adds its Rating
to your Armor Rating, and is cumulative with other Ar-
mor. Orthoskin cannot be combined with skin augmenta-
tions that give you Armor, including dermal plating.
Pathogenic defense: This enhanced spleen can pro-
duce more effective and aggressive white blood cells for
combating pathogens. Pathogenic defense adds its Rating
to Disease Resistance Tests.
Platelet factories: Platelet factories increase your
body’s ability to handle Physical damage by accelerat-
ing the production of platelets within bone marrow and
their concentration in the blood, which helps stop bleed-
ing faster. Any time you would take 2 or more boxes of
damage to your Physical Condition Monitor, reduce the
damage by one box.
Skin pocket: This skin flap can be located anywhere
on your body. A nerveless “sheath” of flesh concealed
by the flap is perfect for hiding a small object—it’s the
bioware version of a smuggling compartment (p. 455).
The skin pocket has a Concealability of –10. It takes a
Complex Action to add or remove an item from a skin
pocket.
Suprathyroid gland: Placed on top of your existing
thyroid gland, the suprathyroid gland supersedes the met-
abolic functions of your thyroid. The enhanced metabolism
produces more energy, supercharging you. While you’re
supercharged, you might want to supersize—to fuel your
optimized metabolism, you’ll need to eat twice as much as
normal. You get a +1 to your Agility, Body, Reaction, and
Strength, along with a 25 percent boost in lifestyle costs.
And you might get a bit hyperactive.
Symbiotes: Tailored micro-organisms in your blood-
stream greatly enhance your healing. Add the Rating of
the symbiotes as a dice pool modifier on healing tests
(Physical and Stun). However, the symbi-
otes have unusual dietary requirements
that must be met to keep them alive.
You need to pay (Rating x 200) nuyen
per month for special symbiote food,
although if you have a High Lifestyle or
better it’s covered.
Synthacardium: Artificially en-
hanced myocardium allows cardiovas-
cular functions to be performed more
efficiently, enabling the heart to keep
the blood better oxygenated. The syn-
thacardium adds its Rating as a dice
pool bonus to your tests using skills in
the Athletics skill group.
Tailored pheromones: These pher-
omones are specially tailored to subtly
influence others and can be released
at will. Tailored pheromones add their
Rating as a dice pool modifier to your
skill tests for skills in the Acting and In-
fluence skill groups, but only when the
person you’re using them on is within a
comfortable conversation range—if they
can’t smell you, the pheromones don’t
work. Tailored pheromones also work
on you to make you feel better about
yourself; increase your Social limit by the
Rating. Tailored pheromones have no effect on magical
abilities and tests.
Toxin extractor: A specially cultivated cluster of cells
in your liver improves its filtering capabilities. The toxin
extractor adds its Rating as a dice pool modifier to all your
Toxin Resistance Tests (Toxins, Drugs, and BTLs, p. 408).
Tracheal Filter: Implanted at the top of your trachea,
this organ can absorb airborne impurities and keep them
from reaching your lungs. The filter adds its Rating as a
dice pool modifier to Toxin Resistance Tests versus inha-
lation vector toxins (Toxins, Drugs, and BTLs, p. 408).
CULTURED BIOWARE
Cultured bioware must be tailor-made for the body in
which it will eventually find a home. This means it is
more expensive and takes longer to acquire than the
off-the-shelf kind.
Cerebral booster: The convolutions and gyri of your
cerebrum are augmented and amplified with additional
nervous tissue, improving overall brain function. Your ce-
rebral booster increases your Logic attribute by its Rating.
Damage compensator: Damage compensators are
essentially cut-offs stored in the nervous pathways that
report pain from the body back to your brain. You ig-
nore a number of damage boxes (your choice of Phys-
ical, Stun, or a combination of the two) equal to the
compensator’s Rating before determining your injury
modifiers.
Mnemonic enhancer: This highly concentrated
growth of grey matter gets attached to the brain’s mem-
ory centers, improving both short- and long-term mem-
ory. Add the enhancer’s Rating as a dice pool bonus to
your Knowledge, Language, and memory-related tests
as well as to your Mental limit.
Pain editor: This cluster of specialized nervous tis-
sue is designed to filter sensory stimuli. If the pain editor
is active, this allows you to ignore all injury modifiers,
and you even stay conscious when your Stun Condi-
tion Monitor is completely full. You feel no pain—you’re
blissfully, dangerously, recklessly unaware of the extent
of damage you’ve taken without either performing a
self-examination (Observe In Detail action) or being in-
formed by a biomonitor (p. 450). While active, the pain
editor increases your Willpower by 1 and decreases your
Intuition by 1. Additionally, all tactile Perception Tests
you make receive a dice pool modifier of –4.
Reflex recorder: The first step in this particular reci-
pe is growing some extra neural material in a small clus-
ter. When that’s fully cooked, you drop it in the skull and
attach it to the nerves for motor reflexes. Then boom,
you’ve got a metahuman with better muscle memory.
The reflex recorder adds 1 to the Rating of a specific skill
linked to a Physical attribute. Multiple recorders may be
taken for multiple skills, but you can’t implant two reflex
recorders for the same skill. Reflex recorder bioware is in-
compatible with skillwires cyberware.
Sleep regulator: The sleep regulator is a modifica-
tion to the hypothalamus, allowing for longer periods of
wakefulness, an incredibly useful advantage for anyone
with any profession, not just shadowrunners. You need
less sleep per day and the sleep you get is deep and
restful (and harder to wake you up from). The sleep regu-
lator lets you get by with three hours of sleep each night
and stay awake for twice as long as normal before hav-
ing to resist sleep deprivation fatigue (p. 172). Resting
hours for healing purposes are not affected.
Synaptic booster: The nerve cells making up the spi-
nal cord are both broadened and replicated with this bio-
ware, allowing for more neural bandwidth. The result is a
much faster reaction time. The booster confers a bonus
of +1 Reaction (and accompanying adjustment to Initia-
tive and Physical limit) and +1D6 Initiative Die per point
of Rating. The synaptic booster cannot be combined with
any other form of Reaction or Initiative enhancement.


Cyberware
Part 	Device 	Essence 	Capacity 	Avail 	Cost 	Source
Head 	Commlink 	0.2 	[2] 	- 	Commlink + 2,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Control Rig R1 	1 	- 	5R 	43,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Control Rig R2 	2 	- 	10R 	97,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Control Rig R3 	3 	- 	15R 	208,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Cortex Bomb (Kink) 	- 	[1] 	12F 	10,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Cortex Bomb (Microbomb) 	- 	[2] 	16F 	25,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Cortex Bomb (Area Bomb) 	- 	[3] 	20F 	40,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Cyberdeck 	0.4 	[4] 	5R 	Deck Cost + 5,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Datajack 	0.1 	- 	2 	1,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Data Lock (R 1-12) 	0.1 	- 	Rating * 2 	Rating * 1,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Olfactory Booster (R 1-6) 	0.2 	- 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 4,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Simrig 	0.2 	- 	12R 	4,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Skilljack (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.1 	- 	Rating * 2 	Rating * 20,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Taste Booster 	0.2 	- 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 3,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Tooth Compartment 	- 	- 	8 	800¥ 	Core
Head 	Ultrasound Sensor (R 1-6) 	0.25 	[2] 	10 	Rating * 12,000¥ 	Core
Head 	Voice Modulator (R 1-6) 	0.2 	- 	Rating * 3F 	Rating * 5,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Cybereyes R1 	0.2 	4 	3 	4,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Cybereyes R2 	0.3 	8 	6 	6,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Cybereyes R3 	0.4 	12 	9 	10,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Cybereyes R4 	0.5 	16 	12 	14,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Flare Compensation 	0.1 	[1] 	4 	1,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Image Link 	0.1 	* 	4 	1,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Low-Light Vision 	0.1 	[2] 	4 	1,500¥ 	Core
Eye 	Ocular Drone 	- 	[6] 	6 	6,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Retinal Duplication (R 1-6) 	0.1 	[1] 	16F 	Rating * 20,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Smartlink 	0.2 	[3] 	8R 	4,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Thermographic Vision 	0.1 	[2] 	4 	1,500¥ 	Core
Eye 	Vision Enhancement (R 1-3) 	0.1 	[Rating] 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 4,000¥ 	Core
Eye 	Vision Magnification 	0.1 	[2] 	4 	2,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Cyberears R1 	0.2 	4 	3 	3,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Cyberears R2 	0.3 	8 	6 	4,500¥ 	Core
Ear 	Cyberears R3 	0.4 	12 	9 	7,500¥ 	Core
Ear 	Cyberears R4 	0.5 	16 	12 	11,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Audio Enhancement (R 1-3) 	0.1 	[Rating] 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 4,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Balance Augmenter 	0.1 	[4] 	8 	8,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Damper 	0.1 	[1] 	6 	2,250¥ 	Core
Ear 	Select Sound Filter (R 1-6) 	0.1 	[Rating] 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 3,500¥ 	Core
Ear 	Sound Link 	0.1 	* 	4 	1,000¥ 	Core
Ear 	Spatial Recognizer 	0.1 	[2] 	8 	4,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Bone Lacing (Plastic) 	0.5 	- 	8R 	8,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Bone Lacing (Aluminum) 	1 	- 	12R 	18,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Bond Lacing (Titanium) 	1.5 	- 	16R 	30,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Dermal Plating (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.5 	- 	(Rating * 4)R 	Rating * 3,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Fingertip Compartment 	0.1 	[1] 	4 	3,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Grapple Gun 	0.5 	[4] 	8 	5,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Internal Air Tank (R 1-3) 	0.25 	[3] 	Rating 	Rating * 4,500¥ 	Core
Body 	Muscle Replacement (R 1-4) 	Rating 	- 	(Rating * 5)R 	Rating * 25,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Reaction Enhancers (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.3 	- 	(Rating * 5)R 	Rating * 13,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Skillwires (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.1 	- 	Rating * 4 	Rating * 20,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Smuggling Compartment 	0.2 	[2] 	6 	7,500¥ 	Core
Body 	Wired Reflexes R1 	2 	- 	8R 	39,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Wired Reflexes R2 	3 	- 	12R 	149,000¥ 	Core
Body 	Wired Reflexes R3 	5 	- 	20R 	217,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Full Arm 	1 	15 	4 	15,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Full Leg 	1 	20 	4 	15,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Hand/Foot 	0.25 	4 	2 	5,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Lower Arm 	0.45 	10 	4 	10,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Lower Leg 	0.45 	12 	4 	10,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Torso 	1.5 	10 	12 	20,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Obvious Skull 	0.75 	4 	16 	10,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Full Arm 	1 	8 	4 	20,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Full Leg 	1 	10 	4 	20,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Hand/Foot 	0.25 	2 	2 	6,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Lower Arm 	0.45 	5 	4 	12,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Lower Leg 	0.45 	6 	4 	12,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Torso 	1.5 	5 	12 	25,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Synthetic Skull 	0.75 	2 	16 	15,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Agility (R 1-3) 	- 	Rating 	(Rating * 3)R 	Rating * 6,500¥ 	Core
Limb 	Armor (R 1-3) 	- 	Rating 	Rating * 5 	Rating * 3,000¥ 	Core
Limb 	Strength (R 1-3) 	- 	Rating 	(Rating * 3)R 	Rating * 6,500¥ 	Core
Limb Accessories 	Cyberarm Gyromount 	- 	[8] 	12F 	6,000¥ 	Core
Limb Accessories 	Cyberarm Slide 	- 	[3] 	12R 	3,000¥ 	Core
Limb Accessories 	Cyber Holster 	- 	[5] 	8R 	2,000¥ 	Core
Limb Accessories 	Hydraulic Jacks (R 1-6) 	- 	[Rating] 	9 	Rating * 2,500¥ 	Core
Limb Accessories 	Large Smuggling Compartment 	- 	[5] 	6 	8,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Hold-Out Pistol 	0.1 	[2] 	8R 	2,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Light Pistol 	0.25 	[4] 	10R 	3,900¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Machine Pistol 	0.5 	[6] 	12R 	3,500¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Heavy Pistol 	0.5 	[6] 	12R 	4,300¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Submachine Gun 	1 	[8] 	12R 	4,800¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Shotgun 	1.25 	[10] 	12R 	8,500¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Grenade Launcher 	1.5 	[15] 	20F 	30,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	External Clip Port 	0.1 	[1] 	- 	+1,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Laser Sight 	- 	[1] 	- 	+1,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Silencer/Suppressor 	- 	[2] 	- 	+1,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Hand Blade (Retractable) 	0.25 	[2] 	10F 	2,500¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Hand Razors (Retractable) 	0.2 	[2] 	8F 	1,250¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Spurs (Retractable) 	0.3 	[3] 	12F 	5,000¥ 	Core
Weapon 	Shock Hand 	0.25 	[4] 	8R 	5,000¥ 	Core 

Bioware
Type 	Device 	Essence 	Avail 	Cost 	Source
Basic 	Adrenaline Pump (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.75 	(Rating * 6)F 	Rating * 55,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Bone Density Augmentation (R 1-4) 	Rating * 0.3 	Rating * 4 	Rating * 5,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Cat's Eye 	0.1 	4 	4,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Enhanced Articulation 	0.3 	12 	24,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Muscle Augmentation (R 1-4) 	Rating * 0.2 	(Rating * 5)R 	Rating * 31,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Muscle Toner (R 1-4) 	Rating * 0.2 	(Rating * 5)R 	Rating * 32,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Orthoskin (R 1-4) 	Rating * 0.25 	(Rating * 4)R 	Rating * 6,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Pathogenic Defense (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.1 	Rating * 2 	Rating * 4,500¥ 	Core
Basic 	Platelet Factories 	0.2 	12 	17,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Skin Pocket 	0.1 	4 	12,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Suprathyroid Gland 	0.7 	20R 	140,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Symbiotes (R 1-4) 	Rating * 0.2 	Rating * 5 	Rating * 3,500¥ 	Core
Basic 	Synthacardium (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.1 	Rating * 4 	Rating * 30,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Tailored Pheromones (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.2 	(Rating * 4)R 	31,000¥ 	Core
Basic 	Toxin Extractor (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.2 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 4,800¥ 	Core
Basic 	Tracheal Filter (R 1-6) 	Rating * 0.1 	Rating * 3 	Rating * 4,500¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Cerebral Booster (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.2 	Rating * 6 	Rating * 31,500¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Damage Compensators (R 1-12) 	Rating * 0.1 	(Rating * 3)F 	Rating * 2,000¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Mnemonic Enhancer (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.1 	Rating * 5 	Rating * 9,000¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Pain Editor 	0.3 	18F 	48,000¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Reflex Recorder (Skill) 	0.1 	10 	14,000¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Sleep Regulator 	0.1 	6 	12,000¥ 	Core
Cultured 	Synaptic Booster (R 1-3) 	Rating * 0.5 	(Rating * 6)R 	Rating * 95,000¥ 	Core 