POSITIVE QUALITIES

AMBIDEXTROUS
COST: 4 KARMA
The Ambidextrous character can handle objects equally
well with either hand. Without this quality, any action per-
formed solely with the off–hand (i.e., firing a gun) suffers
a –2 dice pool modifier (see Attacker Using Off-Hand
Weapon, p. 178).
ANALYTICAL MIND
COST: 5 KARMA
Analytical Mind describes the uncanny ability to logical-
ly analyze information, deduce solutions to problems, or
separate vital information from distractions and noise.
It’s useful in cracking cyphers, solving puzzles, figuring
out traps, and sifting through data. This quality gives
the character a +2 dice pool modifier to any Logic Tests
involving pattern recognition, evidence analysis, clue
hunting, or solving puzzles. This quality also reduces the
time it takes the character to solve a problem by half.
APTITUDE
COST: 14 KARMA
This quality is how you become even better than the
best in the world. The standard limit for skills is 12. Ev-
ery so often, there is a character who can exceed lim-
itations and be truly exceptional in a particular skill.
With this particular quality, the character can have one
skill rated at 7 at character creation, and may eventually
build that skill up to rating 13. Characters may only take
the Aptitude quality once.
ASTRAL CHAMELEON
COST: 10 KARMA
With the Astral Chameleon quality, the character’s astral
signature blends into the background of astral space and
is difficult to detect. All signatures left by the character last
only half as long as other astral signatures. Any individu-
als assensing astral signatures left behind by a character
with this quality receive a –2 dice pool modifier for the
Assensing Test. Only characters with a Magic rating and
capable of leaving astral signatures may have this quality.
BILINGUAL
COST: 5 KARMA
A character with this quality reads, writes, and speaks
a second language fluently. They can list a second lan-
guage as a native tongue (see Language Skills, p. 150).
This quality can only be acquired at character creation;
selecting it gives the character a second free language
skill during Step Five: Purchase Active, Knowledge,
and Language Skills, (p. 88).
BLANDNESS
COST: 8 KARMA
This character blends into a crowd; he’s seldom noticed
and easily forgotten. He is unremarkable in every aspect
of physical appearance. Anyone attempting to describe
the character cannot come up with anything more precise
than “average height, average build, average hair, etc.”
Increase the threshold for anyone to recall specific
details about the character by 1. This means a Memo-
ry Test with a difficulty of Average (threshold of 2) be-
comes a Hard test (threshold of 3).
Individuals attempting to shadow or physically lo-
cate a character with the Blandness quality in a populat-
ed setting receive a –2 dice pool modifier on all tests re-
lated to their search. The same penalty applies if they’re
asking around about the person based on the individu-
al’s physical appearance. The modifier does not, howev-
er, apply to magical or Matrix searches. If the character
acquires any visible tattoos, scars, obvious cyberware,
or other distinguishing features, the bonuses from the
Blandness quality go away until the distinctive features
are removed from the character’s appearance.
In certain circumstances and specific situations, the
gamemaster may determine that Blandness does not
apply. For example, a troll with the Blandness quality still
towers head and shoulders over a crowd of humans and
so still stands out, no matter how average their horns
may be. The character only regains his bonus by leaving
the situation where he stands out.
CATLIKE
COST: 7 KARMA
A character with the Catlike quality is gifted with an
uncanny elegance, a stealthy gait, and an almost pre-
ternatural ability to move without making a sound.
They also claim they land on their feet when dropped,
though they tend not to let people test this. This quality
adds a +2 dice pool modifier to Sneaking skill tests.
CODESLINGER
COST: 10 KARMA
Ones and zeroes are practically a native language to
a Codeslinger. The character is adept at performing a
particular Matrix action (which she selects when she
selects this quality) and receives a +2 dice pool mod-
ifier to that Matrix action. This can only be selected
for Matrix Actions (p. 237) that have a test associated
with them.
DOUBLE-JOINTED
COST: 6 KARMA
A Double-Jointed character has unusually flexible joints
and can bend and contort his body into extreme posi-
tions. The character receives a +2 dice pool modifier for
Escape Artist tests. The character may also be able to
squeeze into small, cramped spaces where less limber
characters cannot. They’re also great at parties and bars.
EXCEPTIONAL ATTRIBUTE
COST: 14 KARMA
The Exceptional Attribute quality is how you get to be
the charismatic troll, or the agile dwarf. It allows you
to possess one attribute at a level one point above the
metatype maximum limit. For example, an ork charac-
ter with the Exceptional Attribute quality for Strength
could take his Strength attribute up to 10 before aug-
mentations are applied, instead of the normal limit of
9. Exceptional Attribute also applies toward Special
Attributes such as Magic and Resonance. Edge cannot
affected by the Exceptional Attribute (Edge is raised
by another quality called Lucky). A character may only
take Exceptional Attribute once, and only with the
gamemaster’s approval.
FIRST IMPRESSION
COST: 11 KARMA
The First Impression quality enables a character to slide
easily into new environments, situations, groups, and
jobs. Whether infiltrating a gang, making contacts in
a new city, or wrangling an invite to a private meet,
the character gains a temporary +2 dice pool modifier
for relevant Social Tests such as Negotiation and Con
during the first meeting. This modifier does not apply
to second and subsequent encounters
FOCUSED CONCENTRATION
COST: 4 KARMA PER
RATING (MAX 6)
A technomancer or magic user with the Focused Con-
centration quality has the discipline to manipulate
mana or Resonance more precisely than otherwise
possible. This precision reduces stress to the magic
user’s or technomancer’s body. She is able to sustain
one spell/complex form with a force/level equal to her
Focused Concentration rating without suffering any
penalties. For example, a magic user with Focused Con-
centration rating 3 may sustain a Force 3 Armor spell
without taking the negative dice pool modifier for sus-
taining a spell. Sustaining any additional spells or com-
plex forms incurs the standard –2 dice pool modifier
per spell or complex form sustained. This quality may
only be taken by magic user characters that are able to
cast spells and technomancers.
GEARHEAD
COST: 11 KARMA
The Gearhead is who you look for when it’s time to stomp
on the gas and move. She’s a natural-born driver or pi-
lot. When she’s at the wheel/stick/controls of a vehicle or
drone, she has an intuitive understanding of its limitations
and its capabilities and is able to coax whatever machine
she’s controlling to perform at its best. During vehicle or
chase combat, a Gearhead can increase the Speed of her
vehicle or drone by 20 percent or increase the Handling
modifier by +1 (player’s choice). She also receives a +2
dice pool modifier when attempting difficult maneuvers
or stunts in the vehicle. This bonus lasts for 1D6 minutes.
The player can choose to make this bonus last up to
an additional 1D6 minutes if she wants. Doing so pushes
the vehicle or drone well beyond its design limits and
risks catastrophic damage. For each minute the charac-
ter pushes the vehicle past its initial bonus period, the
vehicle automatically takes one point of stress damage
(unresisted)
GUTS
COST: 10 KARMA
When a bug spirit with dripping mandibles comes call-
ing, the character with Guts is the one most likely to
stand and fight instead of freaking the hell out. Guts
gives a character a +2 dice pool modifier on tests to re-
sist fear and intimidation, including magically induced
fear from spells or critter powers.
HIGH PAIN TOLERANCE
COST: 7 KARMA PER
RATING (MAX RATING 3)
High Pain Tolerance lets a character keep delivering the
pain even if she’s had plenty piled on her own head.
A character with High Pain Tolerance can ignore one
box of damage per rating point of this quality when
calculating wound modifiers (see Wound Modifiers, p.
169). So a character with this quality at Rating 2 can
take 4 boxes of damage but carry on without wound
modifiers as if she only had 2 boxes of damage. The –1
wound modifier would then kick in when the character
takes her fifth box in damage. This quality may not be
used with the Pain Resistance adept power, pain editor
bioware, or damage compensator bioware.
HOME GROUND
COST: 10 KARMA
If a character knows her neighborhood better than any-
one—the shortcuts, the hiding places, and the people
she can trust—then she probably has the Home Ground
quality. She knows the families who live there, their sto-
ries, and what the kids who moved out are doing; she
knows the streets better than GridGuide, knows things
that aren’t on GridGuide, and knows when GridGuide
is wrong. She knows the politics of the gangs, who’s
running for whom and who’s running from whom. But
it’s not just the physical streets. Depending on the char-
acter, her Home Ground quality can manifest in ways
specific to who and what she is. When choosing this
quality, select one of the bonuses below:
•
Astral Acclimation: The character has become
acclimated to the background count of her
Home Ground. Through a lifetime of familiarity
she’s learned to work around it, enabling her to
ignore up to two points of background count.
For example, if the background count on her
Home Ground is 3, she sees only a reduction of
1 to her Magic tests; if the background count is
5, for her it is only a 3, and so on. This quali-
ty works only on her Home Ground and has no
benefit anywhere else.
You Know a Guy: The character has built up
long-lasting relationships with people from her
neighborhood. These people are not contacts,
but they know her as one of their own and are
more likely to do favors for or talk to her. NPCs
from the character’s Home Ground neighbor-
hood are considered friendly toward her wher-
ever she encounters them (unless she has done
something to change that).The character re-
ceives +2 Street Cred for any Negotiation with
people from her Home Ground.
Digital Turf: This is for a decker or techno-
mancer who has a specific host that she calls her
own. She may actually own the spot, or it can be
a place she frequents enough to consider home.
The character receives a +2 bonus to Matrix
Tests while in her Home Ground host. Bonus-
es from other Qualities may stack with Home
Ground. If the character has not frequented this
host for more than six months, she loses the
Home Ground quality because she is no longer
as familiar as she should be.
The Transporter: This character knows the lay-
out of streets, back alleys, service tunnels, etc.,
like the back of her hand. She knows when
GridGuide is wrong and when GridGuide is out
of date. When the transporter is on her Home
Ground, she has a +2 dice pool modifier for Eva-
sion Tests.
On the Lam: Hiding out and lying low are part of
a shadowrunner’s daily life. On the Lam means
a character has an encyclopedic knowledge of
safehouses, bolt holes, abandoned buildings,
just about any out-of-the-way place not claimed
by gangs or squatters. When she needs to find a
safe location in a hurry, this character receives a
+2 dice pool bonus to her Intuition + appropri-
ate street knowledge skill to find a suitable place
to hole up fast.
Street Politics: This character knows the street
gangs, the criminal operations, and the be-
neath-the-surface affiliations that are the social
and political fabric of her Home Ground. She re-
ceives a +2 dice pool modifier for Knowledge
Tests relating to gangs or their operations.
This quality can be taken multiple times, selecting
one of the categories above each time.
HUMAN-LOOKING
COST: 6 KARMA
A metahuman character with the Human-Looking
quality can pass for human in most circumstanc-
es. Human NPCs respond with neutral attitudes to-
ward such characters when making Social skill tests
(p. 82), even those humans who are particularly bi-
ased against metahumans. The character may suffer
increased animosity from metahuman NPCs who are
prejudiced against humans and who either mistake
him for human or distrust his motives for trying to look
human. Only elves, dwarfs, and orks can take the Hu-
man-Looking quality.
INDOMITABLE
COST: 8 KARMA PER
LEVEL (MAX 3)
Bodies and minds have limits, but some people have
the will to push right through those boundaries. For
each level of Indomitable, a character receives a +1 in-
crease to an Inherent limit of his choice (Mental, Phys-
ical, or Social). He can take up to three levels and can
apply them in any way he chooses (+3 to one Inherent
Limit, for example; or +2 to one Inherent and +1 to an-
other; or +1 to all three).
JURYRIGGER
COST: 10 KARMA
Juryrigger gives a character an intuitive grasp of the in-
ner workings and underlying principles of mechanical
and electronic devices. She knows how to repair the
broken, rejuvenate the worn, improve a device’s effi-
ciency, or coax it into doing things it’s designers hadn’t
intended. Characters with the Juryrigger quality receive
a +2 dice pool modifier for Mechanical Tests when
juryrigging gear. If the gamemaster decides what the
character wants to accomplish is in fact possible, he de-
termines the threshold for her success using the Build/
Repair Table (p. 146) as a guideline, then reduces the
threshold for the test by 1. While a successful Mechan-
ics Skill Test enables the Juryrigger to perform amazing
technical feats, everything she devises is temporary.
Examples of what a character may be able to do with
Juryrigger include:
•Juryrig a destroyed device so that it will operate
just one more time (for 1D6 minutes).
•Tweak an electronic device to function at a rating
one higher than normal for 1D6 Combat Turns.
•Temporarily coax extra performance from a
vehicle’s or drone’s components, increasing its
Sensor or Handling by +1 (if combined with bo-
nuses from Gearhead, the vehicle’s or drone’s
critical components completely burn out at the
end of the duration from being pushed well be-
yond their limits; at that point, the vehicle or
drone becomes a big paperweight).
•Improvise a one-shot device or weapon from
disparate components (the gamemaster has fi-
nal say on whether suitable parts are available).
•Devise an impromptu means to bypass a security
measure, such as a trip beam or pressure plate.
LUCKY
COST: 12 KARMA
The dice roll and the coin flips this character’s way more
often than not, giving her the chance to drop jaws in
amazement at her good fortune. Lucky allows a charac-
ter to possess an Edge attribute one point higher than
his metatype maximum (for example, a human char-
acter could raise her Edge to 8). Note that taking this
quality does not actually increase the character’s cur-
rent Edge rating, it just allows her the opportunity to
do so; the Karma cost for gaining the extra point must
still be paid. This quality may only be taken once and
must be approved by the gamemaster. The Lucky qual-
ity cannot be combined with Exceptional Attribute.
MAGIC RESISTANCE
COST: 6 KARMA PER
RATING (MAX RATING 4)
This is the wonderful ability to potentially make a Fire-
ball bounce away. For every 6 Karma spent on Magic
Resistance, a character receives 1 additional die for
Spell Resistance Tests. The Magical Resistance quality,
however, is always “on”—the character cannot lower it
to receive beneficial spells such as Heal. A character
with Magic Resistance cannot take part in spells that
require a voluntary subject; such spells automatically
fail when used on magic-resistant characters.
Characters with a Magic rating cannot take this
quality.
MENTOR SPIRIT
COST: 5 KARMA
Everyone needs some help in life, even if it comes from
someone relatively filmy and insubstantial. Mentor
Spirit means the character follows a patron spirit (see
Mentor Spirits, p. 320) that guides him in his practice
of magic and provides certain advantages and disad-
vantages to his natural abilities. A character may change
mentor spirits, but he may have only one mentor spirit
at a time. To change mentor spirits, the character must
first buy off the current mentor spirit as if it were a Neg-
ative quality. He can then purchase the quality again to
follow a different mentor spirit. This cost represents the
toll of divorcing from one mentor spirit and bonding
with a new one.
Each tradition has a different name for a mentor
spirit. Hermetic mages prefer the term “mentor spirit,”
while shamans use the word “totem” for the spirit that
they follow. While the names may vary, the way the
mentor works is consistent.
This quality is only available to characters that pos-
sess a Magic attribute rating.
NATURAL ATHLETE
COST: 7 KARMA
A character with this quality has an innate combination
of physical fitness, spatial awareness, and natural athlet-
ic or gymnastic talent. While the character may not be a
world-class athlete and may require training to achieve
peak performance, he is in prime physical shape for his
size and weight class. The Natural Athlete adds a +2 dice
pool modifier for Running and Gymnastics skill tests.
NATURAL HARDENING
COST: 10 KARMA
This quality makes the character’s neural structure resis-
tant to feedback. This gives her 1 point of natural biofeed-
back filtering, which is cumulative with a Biofeedback Fil-
ter program or a technomancer’s firewall (p. 251).
NATURAL IMMUNITY
COST: 4 OR 10 KARMA
The ability to casually sip poison can never be over-
rated. A character with Natural Immunity has an innate
or developed immunity to one single disease or toxin.
This quality is available at two levels. If purchased at
the 4 Karma level, the character is immune to a single
natural disease or toxin. If Natural Immunity is purchased
at the full 10 Karma level, the character is immune to
a single, synthetic (artificially created) disease or toxin.
Natural Immunity does not affect diseases or toxins that
are magically based, such as HMHVV.
The player and gamemaster must agree on the dis-
ease, drug, or poison to which the character is immune.
The character can take one dose of the drug or poison
and experience one exposure to the disease every six
hours with no ill effects. Any subsequent dosing or ex-
posure during the next six hours causes normal dam-
age, but the character’s recovery time is halved.
Note that characters with Natural Immunity to a dis-
ease can be a carrier, infecting other characters while
suffering no ill effects.
PHOTOGRAPHIC MEMORY
COST: 6 KARMA
A character with Photographic Memory can instantly
recall facts, dates, numbers, or anything else he has
seen or heard. The character gains a +2 dice pool mod-
ifier to all Memory Tests.
QUICK HEALER
COST: 3 KARMA
A character with the Quick Healer quality receives a +2
dice pool modifier to all Healing Tests made on/for/by
her, including magical healing.
RESISTANCE TO
PATHOGENS/TOXINS
COST: 4 OR 8 KARMA
A character with Resistance to Pathogens/Toxins can
fight off diseases and drugs more easily than other char-
acters and receives a +1 dice pool modifier to Resis-
tance Tests. This quality comes at two levels: at 4 Karma
the character is resistant to either pathogens or toxins,
not both. If the character purchases this quality at 8 Kar-
ma, she receives the +1 modifier for resisting both.
SPIRIT AFFINITY
COST: 7 KARMA
Available only to magic users, the Spirit Affinity quality
allows a character to be attuned to one type of spir-
it (see Spirits, p. 303). These spirits find the character
interesting, are drawn to her, and are more inclined to
assist her. They may be reluctant to attack the charac-
ter, and if forced to do so they are likely to use nonle-
thal power. Watchers and minions do not count for this
quality as they are constructed and are not summoned
like normal spirits. Spirit Affinity provides magicians
with 1 additional spirit service for each spirit of that
type, and it also provides a +1 dice pool modifier for
Binding Tests.
Magic users may possess this quality for a type of
spirit that is not part of their magical tradition.
TOUGHNESS
COST: 9 KARMA
Characters with the Toughness quality shrug off dam-
age more easily than others. Such characters gain a +1
dice pool modifier to their Body when making Damage
Resistance tests.
WILL TO LIVE
COST: 3 KARMA PER
RATING (MAX RATING 3)
For each rating point in Will to Live, the character gains
1 additional Damage Overflow Box (p. 101). These ad-
ditional boxes only allow the character to sustain ad-
ditional damage before dying; they do not raise the
threshold at which the character becomes unconscious
or incapacitated, nor do they affect modifiers from the
damage the character has taken.

NEGATIVE QUALITIES
ADDICTION
BONUS: 4 TO 25 KARMA
A character with the Addiction quality is hooked on
chemical substances, such as street drugs (novacoke,
bliss, tempo); technological or magical devices, such
as better-than-life (BTL) chips or foci; or potentially ad-
dictive activities such
as gambling or sex.
Physiological Addic-
tions affect the Body’s
functions, producing
pain, nausea, shakes,
and other side effects
that can impair the run-
ner, particularly during
withdrawal. Some pos-
sible effects of psy-
chological Addictions
include paranoia, anxi-
ety, insomnia, poor concentration, mood disorders, and
depression. For specific rules on Addiction Tests, With-
drawal Tests, and staying clean, see p. 414.
The bonus Karma value of this quality depends on
how severe the addiction is. Levels of addiction include:
Mild, Moderate, Severe, or Burnout. Addictions get
worse over prolonged periods of time without treat-
ment. Each level of Addiction has a starting dosage level
that tells the character how much of a substance or ac-
tivity they must use for a craving to be sated. This level
can be increased if the character has augmentations.
The more severe a character’s Addiction, the more sub-
stance or time devoted to the activity he needs to satisfy
his cravings.
At the lower end of the spectrum for the Addiction
quality (Mild, Moderate), it is easier to hide the effects
of an Addiction. At the most severe levels (Severe, Burn-
out), there are noticeable physical and mental signs of
Addiction. These signs negatively impact his Social Tests
even if he is not suffering the effects of withdrawal.
Mild (4 Karma)/1 dose or 1 hour of habit-related
activity: Mild cravings occur once a month for the char-
acter. If a character fails his Withdrawal Test, he suffers
symptoms of withdrawal and must actively seek out and
use the substance or engage in the activity to find relief.
On a run, this could mean delaying plans that the runner
team may have meticulously put together for a job, es-
pecially if the character is busy gambling with a bookie
or slotting a BTL instead of being available for the run.
While the character is suffering withdrawal symptoms,
apply a –2 dice pool modifier to all of the character’s
Mental-attribute-based tests (if psychological depen-
dency) or to all the character’s Physical-attribute-based
tests (if physiological dependency). If the character suc-
ceeds on his Withdrawal Test, the character does not
suffer withdrawal symptoms and does not need the
substance or participate in that habit until the character
makes their next Withdrawal Test (in one month). He is
able to stay clean for that month.
Moderate (9 Karma)/1 dose or 1 hour of habit-re-
lated activity: A craving at the Moderate level occurs
roughly every two weeks. If the character experiences
withdrawal, he suffers a –4 to all Mental-attribute-based
tests (if psychological dependency) or –4 to all Physi-
cal-attribute-based tests (if physiological dependency)
until the craving is satisfied.
Severe (20 Karma)/2 doses or 2 hours of habit-re-
lated activity: The addiction is spiraling out of control.
The addict experiences cravings once a week. If he fails
a Withdrawal Test, he suffers a –4 dice pool modifier to
either their Mental- or Physical-based tests (as appropri-
ate for their dependency) while in withdrawal.
In addition, he suffers a –2 dice pool modifier to
all Social Tests, whether he is in withdrawal or not. It
is all but impossible now for the character to hide his
addiction, even when he’s had his fix. The physical and
psychological symptoms of the damage caused by his
Addiction are readily apparent to the close observer.
Burnout (25 Karma) 3 doses/3 hours (minimum)
of habit-related activity: Burnout is the final progres-
sion of the Addiction quality. The addict experiences
cravings for their drug or habit of choice every day.
Until they satisfy their craving with a fix, the charac-
ter suffers a –6 penalty to either his Mental- or Physi-
cal-based tests (whichever one is appropriate for their
dependency) while in withdrawal.
Because his Addiction is now obvious to even the
most casual observer, the character suffers a –3 dice
pool modifier for all Social Tests, whether he is in with-
drawal or not.
The gamemaster has discretion as to whether or not
she should call for Withdrawal Tests during an Addicted
character’s downtime, depending on to what degree the
gamemaster wants the addiction to impact gameplay
for the character.

COMMON ADDICTIONS Examples
Better-than-life chips
Alchemical preparations 
Alcohol
Street drugs
Foci 
Augmentations

ALLERGY
BONUS: 5 TO 25 KARMA
A character with the Allergy quality is allergic to a sub-
stance or condition found in their environment. The
value of this quality depends on two factors. The first
is whether the substance or condition is Uncommon
(2 Karma) or Common (7 Karma). Next, determine the
severity of the symptoms: Mild (3 Karma), Moderate
(8 Karma), Severe (13 Karma), or Extreme (18 Karma).
Add the appropriate point values together to find the
final value. For example, the value of an Uncommon
Moderate Allergy (Silver) is 10 Karma (2+8 Karma). If
a character is attacked with a substance to which they
are allergic, they lose 1 die from their Resistance Test
for each stage of severity of the Allergy (e.g., 1 die for a
Mild allergy, 2 dice for a Moderate allergy, etc.).

ASTRAL BEACON
BONUS: 10 KARMA
The astral signature of a character with the Astral Bea-
con quality is like, well, a beacon—highly visible on the
astral plane. The signature also lasts twice as long as
it would without the Astral Beacon quality and others
assensing it receive a –1 to the threshold of their As-
sensing Test for gathering information about it. Only
characters with a Magic rating may take this quality.
BAD LUCK
BONUS: 12 KARMA
This character is cursed—his own luck often turns
against him. When the character uses Edge, roll 1D6.
On a result of 1, the point of Edge is spent, but it has the
exact opposite effect intended. For example, if a char-
acter hopes to gain additional dice he loses that many
dice from his dice pool. If a character spends Edge to
go first in an Initiative Pass, he ends up going last. If a
character spent Edge to negate a glitch, Bad Luck turns
it into a critical glitch. The character suffers Bad Luck on
only one Edge roll per game session. After the charac-
ter has suffered his Bad Luck, he does not need to roll
the test for Bad Luck for any more expenditures of Edge
for the duration of that game session.
BAD REP
BONUS: 7 KARMA
A character with a Bad Rep quality has a dark and lasting
stain on her reputation. She may be a former Knight Er-
rant cop known to have been particularly brutal in dealing
with shadowrunners. Or word on the street might be that
she once killed a member of her own runner team. If she’s
Awakened and comes from a polluted region, it may be
generally accepted that she’s a toxic shaman. Whether
she is actually guilty of any wrongdoing is not relevant.
What people believe she has done has permanent-
ly tainted the way they see her and how they deal with
her. Whatever the reason, the character starts play with
3 points of Notoriety (p. 372) that can only be removed
or decreased by confronting and resolving the source of
the bad reputation. Only then may the Bad Rep quality be
bought off with Karma.
CODE OF HONOR
BONUS: 15 KARMA
The character has a binding Code of Honor when it
comes to killing members of a specific group; it’s a
matter of unwavering principle. The character with
the Code of Honor quality chooses a specific group
that they will not kill or allow others to kill. Examples
of this group could include women, children, innocent
bystanders, or a specific metatype. A character can
choose to protect specific paracritters, but only if the
specified paracritter possesses the Sapience power.
The gamemaster must approve the group that the
character designates as being “off limits.” If the group
(such as children) is not regularly encountered in cam-
paigns, the gamemaster can reject the choice. If the
player feels strongly about his choice, the gamemaster
may allow the player to take two groups they will not
harm, (i.e., women and children), one of which must be
likely to be encountered in the campaign. A magician
can legitimately choose to not destroy any type of spirit
from which their Mentor Spirit bestows a bonus for sum-
moning. This Code of Honor respects their Mentor Spirit
and is worthy of the Karma. Characters can’t pick an ob-
scure or non-existent group to acquire this quality—you
can’t acquire Karma by vowing to never kill sapient ham-
sters, for example.
Any time anyone attempts to kill a member of the
character’s protected list, the character must make a
Charisma + Willpower (4) Test. A failed roll means the
character must immediately put a stop the violence
against the member of their protected group. If the
situation forces the character to take action against
any of his protected group, he will always choose
non-lethal methods. Killing a member of the group he
has sworn to protect is a line he will not cross for any
reason.
There are drawbacks to having a Code of Honor. For
example, it can leave witnesses behind. For each per-
son in the protected group the character leaves alive
and who is in a position to remember them, increase the
character’s Public Awareness by 1. The character’s job
options are also limited—he will not take a job if the ob-
jective is the death of a member of his protected group
and will have reservations about taking part in a mis-
sion with a high probability of causing collateral harm to
members of his protected group.
There is always a chance things will go wrong when-
ever non-lethal force is used. A person may have a
life-threatening allergic reaction to a usually harmless
knockout drug, or a heart condition that makes a taser
shock deadly. For this reason, each time the character
takes a violent action or allows others to take violent ac-
tion against a member of his chosen group, the game-
master makes a secret roll of 1D6. On a roll of 1, there is
an unforeseen complication from the use of non-lethal
force. With a metahuman it could be a life-threatening
medical condition; with a spirit, an attempt to banish
rather than destroy may in fact set the spirit free. When
a complication arises, the gamemaster makes a secret
Perception (4) Test for the character to notice if anything
has gone wrong.
If a person in the character’s chosen group is killed,
whether intentionally or inadvertently, the character los-
es a point of Karma for that adventure for each person in
their “protected group” that is killed.
The Code of Honor can take other forms as well. For
example:
Assassin’s Creed: A character never kills anyone
that they are not paid to kill. Being precise as an
assassin, not leaving collateral damage, and be-
ing invisible are important hallmarks of those
who believe in the Assassin’s Creed. Characters
who take this version of Code of Honor lose 1
point of Karma for every unintentional and/or
unpaid murder they commit, and their Public
Awareness goes up by 1 for each such death.
Warrior’s Code: The character who follows a
Warrior’s Code maintains a strict sense of per-
sonal honor. In 2075, this likely means a character
will not kill an unarmed person, take lethal action
against an opponent who is unaware or unpre-
pared for an attack (i.e., a guard who doesn’t
know the runner is there), or knowingly take an
action that could kill someone who is defense-
less (i.e., from a stray bullet or allow someone to
be killed from a sniper shot). The character loses
1 Karma per unarmed or defenseless person that
they kill or allow to be killed through their actions.
CODEBLOCK
BONUS: 10 KARMA
A character with the Codeblock quality always has trouble
with a particular Matrix action. He receives a –2 dice pool
modifier any time he attempts that type of Matrix action.
Codeblock only applies to Matrix actions with an associ-
ated test; it does not apply to actions that do not require a
test (p. 237). Characters cannot apply Codeblock toward
hacking actions they are never likely to take.
COMBAT PARALYISIS
BONUS: 12 KARMA
A character with Combat Paralysis freezes in combat.
On the character’s first Initiative Test, the character di-
vides their Initiative Score for that round in half (round-
ed up). In subsequent Combat Turns, the character may
roll their normal Initiative. Combat Paralysis also gives
the character a –3 dice pool modifier on Surprise Tests.
If the character must make a Composure Test while un-
der fire or in a similar combat situation, the gamemas-
ter applies a +1 threshold modifier.
DEPENDENTS
BONUS: 3, 6, OR 9 KARMA
A character with the Dependents quality has one or
more loved ones who depend on them for emotion-
al support and financial aid. Dependents may include
children, parents, a spouse or lover, a sibling, or an
old friend. Meeting the needs of a dependent should
take up a fair amount of the character’s time, as well as
some of the character’s money. Increase the amount of
time it takes to learn a new skill or improve an existing
skill by fifty percent. See the Character Advancement
section on p. 103 for more information on how long it
takes to improve skills. Also increase the base time for
any long-term projects by fifty percent. A dependent
could also be a hindrance in other ways—getting un-
derfoot, sharing living space, involving herself in the
character’s work, borrowing the car, calling at the most
inopportune moments, etc.
For 3 Karma, the dependent is an occasional nui-
sance: dropping in unexpectedly (such as when the
character must go to a meet), needing emotional sup-
port, favors, or other confirmations of friendship/com-
mitment, and occasionally money. Examples of depen-
dents at this level include: slacker sibling, long-term
boyfriend/girlfriend, or a child not living with the char-
acter but for whom the character pays child support and
visits regularly. Raise the character’s lifestyle cost by 10
percent each month.
For 6 Karma, the dependent is a regular inconve-
nience: needing attention and commitment on a regular
basis, getting involved in the character’s affairs, sharing
living space. Examples of dependents at this level in-
clude: a live-in lover/wife/husband or family member, a
child for whom the character shares custody and rou-
tinely has in his home (every other weekend, etc.), or a
young child or close sibling for whom the character is
responsible. Increase the character’s lifestyle cost by 20
percent each month.
At the 9 Karma level, the dependent is close family
or a life partner and lives with the character. The depen-
dent is a strain on the character’s time and resources,
and/or requires special care and attention that limits the
character’s availability for missions or specific actions.
Examples of these dependents include large family
sharing the living space, parents or grandparents with
medical or physical needs, and full custody of any chil-
dren. Increase the lifestyle cost for the character by 30
percent each month.
DISTINCTIVE STYLE
BONUS: 5 KARMA
A character with the Distinctive Style quality has at least
one aspect of his appearance, mannerism, or personal-
ity that makes him inconveniently memorable. Choic-
es for Distinctive Style include, but are by no means
limited to: tattoos that cannot be easily concealed, an
accent or atypical manner of speaking, bizarre fashion
choices, scars, gang or prison signs, flashy custom aug-
mentations, or non-metahuman modifications like a
tail. Note that what’s distinctive in one culture or loca-
tion may not be in another.
Whatever Distinctive Style the player selects makes
her character easy to remember. Anyone who attempts
to identify, trace, or physically locate this character (or
gain information about him via legwork) receives a +2
dice pool modifier for relevant tests. If an NPC makes a
Memory Test (p. 152) to determine how much they re-
call about the character, reduce the Difficulty Threshold
by 1, to a minimum of 1.
This quality is physical in nature and does not apply
to astral searches. This quality may only be taken once.
This quality is incompatible with Blandness.
ELF POSER
BONUS: 6 KARMA
The Elf Poser is a human character who wants to be an
elf. She associates with elves as much as possible, talks
like elves, and alters her appearance to resemble an
elf. Characters with this quality may undergo cosmetic
surgery to get elf ears and elf eyes, and they may suc-
cessfully pass as elves and avoid any negative Social
modifiers associated with being a non-elf.
Real elves consider Elf Posers an embarrassment,
many humans think of them as sellouts, and other meta-
types generally consider posers to be pathetic. If an elf
discovers the character’s secret, the elf is likely to treat
her with contempt and hostility (see Social Modifiers
Table, p. 140). An outed elf poser may also face stigma
from prejudiced humans as a “race traitor.”
Only human characters may take the Elf Poser quality.
GREMLINS
BONUS: 4 KARMA
PER LEVEL (MAX 4)
Characters with the Gremlins quality don’t get along
with technology. Devices malfunction inexplicably,
software crashes unexpectedly, vehicles refuse to start,
components become unusually fragile at his touch, and
wireless links suffer faltering connections and odd in-
terference whenever he’s involved.
For each level (maximum of 4), reduce the number
of rolled 1s necessary to get a glitch (p. 45) by 1 when-
ever the character is attempting to use a moderately so-
phisticated device. For example, a character with a dice
pool of 8 and Gremlins level 2 (8 Karma) would trigger
a glitch if two or more 1s result from the test (instead
of the normal 4). The gamemaster may also require the
character to make a test for operation that would oth-
erwise succeed automatically to see whether or not a
glitch occurs.
When describing the effects of a Gremlin-induced
glitch, gamemasters should play up the notion of a par-
ticularly weird mechanical or electronics malfunction.
Some examples of Gremlin-induced glitches include:
the magazine falling out of a pistol when attempting
a critical shot, a keypad inexplicably burning out while
entering a code to disarm an alarm system, or the com-
mlink interface converting to Sperethiel mid-sentence
when attempting to access a restricted node.
Note that Gremlins is a Negative quality—its effects
hinder the character (and probably entertain others). The
character cannot use his Gremlins quality to damage an
opponent’s high-tech equipment merely by touching it.
Anything the character attempts to sabotage using only
Gremlins will function flawlessly. (Obviously, he can try
any ordinary means of sabotage, but Gremlins will haunt
his efforts.)
The effect only applies to external equipment and
does not affect cyberware, bioware, or other implants.
INCOMPETENT
BONUS: 5 KARMA
An Incompetent character possesses a total lack of
knowledge or ability with a certain Active skill group—
or, perhaps worse, they have some vague knowledge
or the skills contained in the group, but they have nei-
ther the coordination nor the comprehension to come
anywhere close to carrying it off properly. No matter
how much effort they put into this area, they simply
cannot grasp it—it would take a miracle for them to
somehow, someday advance to the level of “poor” in
those skills.
Incompetent may not be applied to Language or
Knowledge skills. The Incompetent character is treated
as having skill level of “unaware” for all skills in the skill
group (see the Skill Rating Table, p. 131).
In some cases, a Success Test may be required for
tasks most people take for granted. Characters may not
possess that skill group for which they have the Incom-
petent quality. If gear grants a bonus or requires the use
of a specific skill in which the character is Incompetent,
the character gains no benefits from the gear.
Gamemasters are free to reject any choices that
would prove irrelevant or exploitative in actual play,
such as Incompetent: Outdoors in a campaign based en-
tirely inside an arcology. (This should go without saying,
but just in case: Characters may never choose Incompe-
tent for any skill group that they are physically incapable
of using. A non-magician cannot take Incompetent in
Sorcery, Conjuring, or Enchanting; a non-technomancer
cannot be Incompetent in a skill that requires Reso-
nance; and so on.)
Incompetent may be purchased only once.
INSOMNIA
BONUS: 10 OR 15 KARMA
A character with the Insomnia quality has trouble fall-
ing asleep and seldom feels well rested. Usually, this is
only an annoyance. For runners, however, this can be-
come a major problem when they are dependent on
being able to rest at every opportunity to remain sharp.
Insomnia can lengthen the amount of time it takes for a
character to recover Stun damage.
At the 10 Karma level, before a character rolls his
Body + Willpower to recover Stun damage, the charac-
ter rolls an Intuition + Willpower (4) Test. If the charac-
ter succeeds on this test, the character is not impeded
by Insomnia and the character regains Stun damage as
normal. He also regains 1 point of Edge after 8 hours
of restful sleep. If the character fails, double the amount
of time it normally would take for a character to recov-
er their Stun damage. So instead of healing a number
of boxes of Stun damage in an hour, it now takes two
hours per roll. If the character is affected by Insomnia,
the character does not have his Edge refreshed and may
not have it refreshed for up to another 24 hours.
At the 15 Karma level, a failed Willpower + Intuition
(4) Test means that all efforts to regain Stun damage
through rest are negated during that time period, and
the character must try again later. No Stun damage is
regained from the attempt due to the insomnia the char-
acter experiences, and the character must wait for 24
hours before their Edge refreshes.
LOSS OF CONFIDENCE
BONUS: 10 KARMA
The Loss of Confidence quality means something has
caused the character to lose confidence in himself and
one of his abilities. Though a skilled decker, he failed to
hack into a Stuffer Shack host, or despite high Agility,
he glitched an easy Climbing Test and fell into a dump-
ster—whatever the reason, he now doubts himself and
his abilities. In tests involving the affected skill, the char-
acter suffers a –2 dice pool modifier. If the character has
a specialization with the skill, the character cannot use
that specialization while suffering a loss of confidence.
The skill chosen for the character to have a Loss of Con-
fidence must be one that the character prides himself in
and has invested in building. Only skills with a rating 4 or
higher may suffer the Loss of Confidence quality. Edge
may not be used for tests involving this skill when the
character is suffering Loss of Confidence.
LOW PAIN TOLERANCE
BONUS: 9 KARMA
Characters with Low Pain Tolerance are particularly
sensitive to pain; they incur a –1 wound modifier for
every 2 boxes of cumulative damage, instead of the
normal 3 boxes. This affects both Physical and Stun
damage tracks.
ORK POSER
BONUS: 6 KARMA
Influenced by Goblin Rock or over-hyped orxploita-
tion trends, an Ork Poser is an elf or human character
who alters her appearance to appear as an ork. Vari-
ous cosmetic biomods—tusk implants, steroids, larynx
alterations, etc.—allow him to successfully pass as an
ork. Ork posers are an embarrassment to many orks,
but some tolerate, if not appreciate, the compliment
behind the effort. This means an ork who discovers the
character’s secret may either become very hostile to-
ward him or be willing to let the character join the “fam-
ily”—provided he passes an appropriate hazing ritual to
prove his “orkness.” An outed ork poser may also face
stigma from other humans or elves as “race traitors,” if
those humans/elves harbor any prejudice against orks.
Only humans and elves may take the Ork Poser
quality.
PREJUDICED
BONUS: 3 TO 10 KARMA
With this quality the character is Prejudiced against
members of a specific group of people: metahumans,
Awakened, non-metahuman sapient critters, or some
other group. The character is not merely intolerant—he
is outspoken about his beliefs and may actively work
against the target of his prejudice. Depending upon the
degree of prejudice, this quality can get the character
into trouble for expressing his views or when forced to
confront the targets of his prejudice.
The Karma bonus granted by this quality varies de-
pending upon how common the hated group is, how of-
ten the character is likely to encounter members of the
group, and the degree to which the character is openly
antagonistic toward them. Refer to the Prejudiced Ta-
ble to determine the Karma value of the quality based
on the prevalence of the hated group and the degree
of prejudice.
When dealing with the target of their prejudice, a
character receives a –2 dice pool modifier per level of
severity of the Prejudiced quality for all Social Tests. If
negotiations are a part of the encounter, the target re-
ceives a +2 modifier per level of the Prejudiced quality.
So if a character who is radical in their prejudiced views
against the Awakened tries to negotiate with the target
of their prejudice, they receive a –6 to their Negotiation
Test while the target receives a +6 dice pool modifier.
SCORCHED
BONUS: 10 KARMA
A Scorched character is coping with neurological prob-
lems brought on by damage caused in some way by
Black IC, Psychotropic IC, or BTL. The problem can
manifest as short- or long-term memory loss, unex-
pected blackouts, frequent migraines, diminished
senses (sight, touch, smell, etc.), and mood disorders
such as paranoia and anxiety. The player chooses one
specific effect of Scorched, and its effect should be
pronounced enough to hinder the character and pres-
ent potential plot hooks for the gamemaster. Whenev-
er he enters VR or slots a BTL chip, the character must
make a Body + Willpower (4) Test. On a failed roll, he
experiences the specified physical effects for six hours.
A glitch or critical glitch on this test results in suffering
the effects for 24 hours. The only way to eliminate the
Scorched quality is to get the medical treatment nec-
essary to repair the damage, then spend the Karma to
buy off the Negative quality. Once Scorched, though,
the character remains susceptible to the condition.
Another bad encounter with Black or Psychotropic IC
or a BTL will bring this quality back. In addition to the
physical side effects the character may experience
from being Scorched, the character is vulnerable to
damage inflicted by either Black or Psychotropic IC or
BTLs. When faced with this IC, the character must make
a Willpower (3) Test to be able to confront it without
panicking. If he is able to confront the IC that caused
their Scorched condition, the character suffers a –2 to
Damage Resistance Tests when these programs are in-
flicting damage.
To take the Scorched quality for BTLs, the character
must have at least a Mild Addiction to BTLs and possess
the gear necessary to use BTLs.
To take the Scorched quality for Black and/or Psy-
chotropic IC, the character must be either a decker or a
technomancer.
SENSITIVE SYSTEM
BONUS: 12 KARMA
A character with the Sensitive System quality has im-
muno-suppressive problems with cybernetic implants.
Double all Essence losses caused by cyberware. Bio-
ware implants, regardless of how they are grown or de-
signed, are rejected by the character’s body.
This quality works differently for characters who
are technomancers or Awakened and therefore never
plan to take implants. Awakened individuals or tech-
nomancers remain fully capable of channeling mana or
using Resonance, but they are potentially more suscep-
tible to Drain or Fading. A magic user or technomancer
with a Sensitive System must make a Willpower (2) Test
before any Drain or Fading Tests. Failure on this test re-
sults in Drain or Fading Values being increased by +2 for
that particular Drain or Fading Test, as the energy trav-
eling through their body does more damage to their
Sensitive System.
SIMSENSE VERTIGO
BONUS: 5 KARMA
Characters who suffer from Simsense Vertigo expe-
rience feelings of disorientation whenever they work
with augmented reality, virtual reality, or simsense
(including smartlinks, simrigs, and image links). Such
characters receive a –2 dice pool modifier to all tests
when interacting with AR, VR, or simsense.
SINNER (LAYERED)
BONUS: 5 TO 25 KARMA
There are four types of SINs that fall under the SINner
(Layered) quality: National SIN, Criminal SIN (either Cor-
porate or National), Corporate Limited SIN, or Corporate
Born. Individuals with SINs are required by law to always
broadcast their SINs. A legal SIN is required for all legal
purchases. This makes them very useful things to have,
so those who are SINless generally get by with the use of
fake SINs (p. 367) just so they can participate in society.
NATIONAL SIN
At the 5 Karma level, the character has what is called
a National SIN. The character’s parents were legal citizens
of a nation (such as the UCAS or CAS) and he has been a
citizen of that nation from birth. He has the right to vote,
qualify for passports issued by his nation, enlist in the na-
tional military, or work in the national government. A Na-
tional SIN is required for any national security clearance
or any form of national military career. A character with
a National SIN pays fifteen percent of their gross income
in taxes. He is also in no way connected to any of the
megacorporations. The main drawback to having a legal
National SIN is the character is in the system. The nation
in the player character’s background has the character’s
biometric data (DNA, fingerprints, retinal scans) on file,
and that biometric data is shared with law enforcement
agencies through the Global SIN Registry. This makes it
much easier to track a character should a job go side-
ways. Also, nations typically sell the personal information
tied to the character’s SIN to corporations. Those with a
legal SIN get nearly three times as much spam as those
who don’t have a SIN or rely on fake SINs, and the spam
messages they receive are disturbingly tailored to their
preferences (based on their buying and browsing habits).
CRIMINAL SIN
At the 10 Karma level, the character has a Criminal
SIN (either Corporate or National); his Criminal SIN re-
places any previous SIN. At some point in his life, the
character was arrested and served time for a felony-level
offense and was branded a criminal for the rest of his
life. He is legally required to broadcast his Criminal SIN
at all times; failure to do so is a felony and can lead to
re-incarceration. He is shunned by law-abiding society.
Law-abiding citizens will, if they must, deal with a SIN-
less character before they’d have any interaction with a
known criminal. With his Criminal SIN, the character will
experience prejudiced views, suspicion, and/or open
hostility from most people with SINs. He will often be
denied entry to certain locations (high-end stores, car
dealerships, museums, galleries, etc.) and will have dif-
ficulty finding legal employment. He can expect to be
brought in and held up to 48 hours for questioning any-
time a crime is committed in his area. The judicial sys-
tem in 2075 is more an assembly line than institution of
justice. Suspects are treated as guilty unless proven in-
nocent, plausible circumstantial evidence is often suffi-
cient for conviction, and sentencing has more to do with
the judge’s mood than the crime. In this environment it’s
likely the cops will be more interested in closing the case
than solving any crime; they may try to pin crimes on
the character with the Criminal SIN whether or not she
had anything to do with it. Some degree of “adjusting”
facts and “interpreting” witness accounts to support alle-
gations is common; fabricating evidence, if only to meet
conviction productivity goals, is not rare. Magic users
tend to receive much harsher treatment from the judi-
cial system than mundane criminals. If the character is a
magic user with a Criminal SIN, he is registered with local
law enforcement. He can expect regular—but usually not
scheduled—checks to confirm he lives and to ensure he
is not using forbidden spell formula, foci, or other magi-
cal gear. The nation or corporation that issued the Crimi-
nal SIN will keep close tabs on the character, if he fails to
update residential information or appears in any way to
be trying to evade their oversight, he is subject to arrest.
He is also required to pay a fifteen percent tax on his
gross income to the entity that issued his Criminal SIN.
CORPORATE LIMITED SIN
At the 15 Karma level the character has the Corpo-
rate Limited SIN; he has somehow gained a position
in a megacorporation from the outside. He may have
been hired as a wageslave (or been the minor child of
a person hired as a wageslave), or perhaps brought in
by someone in the megacorp who saw advantage in his
skill, talent, area of expertise, or some other useful attri-
bute. Under most circumstances the Corporate Limited
SIN replaces any National SIN. His Corporate Limited
SIN becomes part of the Global SIN Registry, to which
law enforcement agencies and security corporations
alike have access. Many of these Corporate Limited
SINs record whether or not the character is Awakened.
The Corporate Limited SIN allows the character to be
employed by the megacorp under most circumstances,
and it replaces any National SIN that the character may
have had previously. With the Corporate SIN, the char-
acter can be gainfully employed by the issuing megacor-
poration as a wageslave, a low-ranking member of the
corporation’s security services, or an enlisted member
of the corporation’s military. Though he could have a
secret-level security clearance to perform his duties,
he cannot rise to a leadership position, become an of-
ficer, or be part of the megacorporation’s Special Forces
(such as the Red Samurai). As a group, characters that
possess Corporate Limited SINs are believed to either
know something valuable about the inner workings of
the megacorporation or have a skill set rival megacorps
would want; as such they are considered valid targets
for extraction, even if they are no longer active with the
corporation. Characters with the Corporate Limited SIN
experience prejudice and hostility from those in the
shadows who are SINless. The SINless believe the cor-
porations deliberately keep them poor and powerless so
they can be exploited. The character with the Corporate
Limited SIN may find himself being personally blamed
for his corporation’s actions—protesting he has no real
authority and no connection with the actions in question
usually does little good. To the SINless and neo-anar-
chists the character with the Corporate Limited SIN has
sold out and chosen a corrupt and oppressive system
over his own people. The character pays twenty percent
of his gross income in taxes to his megacorporation.
CORPORATE SIN
At the 25 Karma level is the Corporate Born SIN. The
character with this ID was probably born into a mega
corporation, or belonged to one when it achieved extra-
territoriality. At least one of his parents probably had the
Corporate Born SIN as well. He grew up in the corpora-
tion, his social involvement, education, and almost every
aspect of his life was managed by the corporation. His
skills and aptitudes were evaluated constantly, and he
was groomed for the career path to which he was best
suited; his whole world was the corporation. Characters
with the Corporate Born SIN had the potential and the
opportunity to advance through the corporation hierar-
chy. He could have been a department administrator, a
finance strategist, an agent of corporate intelligence, an
officer in a megacorp’s military, or even a member of
Corporate Special Forces (Renraku’s Red Samurai or Ares’
Firewatch). With a Corporate Born SIN, he could have en-
joyed top-secret clearance within the corporation and ac-
cess to nearly unlimited resources. Then something hap-
pened. An unforgivably costly mistake, the machinations
of a rival, a supervisor in need of a scapegoat—something
pushed the character out of the corporation and into the
cold and unforgiving shadows. In the shadows a SIN that
had been the key to opportunity is now a deadly liabil-
ity. Most in the shadows see the Corporate Born as the
privileged few, the aristocrats in the armored limousines
who look down on them, oppress them, exploit them
and deny them their basic rights. If the SINless discover
the character’s Corporate Born SIN, reactions will range
from deep suspicion to violent hostility; serious injury
and death are real possibilities. The character’s loyalty to
his corporation is never questioned, which can be an in-
surmountable liability in a culture that works against the
megacorps. Would-be runners have been killed for hold-
ing Corporate Born SINs. Fortunately, Corporate Born re-
cords are limited to the megacorporation that generated
them. Files in the Global SIN Registry can confirm she has
a valid SIN, but do not contain any additional information.
Those with Corporate Born SINs pay a tax of ten percent
of their gross income to their corporation
SOCIAL STRESS
BONUS: 8 KARMA
Whether as a result of loss or trauma or due to innate
psychological makeup, the Social Stress quality bur-
dens the character with emotions that interfere with
his ability to interact with others. A specific cause and
trigger for the Social Stress must be established. For ex-
ample, if his Social Stress is caused by survivor’s guilt
after the loss of a close friend, unexpectedly encoun-
tering someone who looks similar to the lost friend will
heighten stress. When a character is using Leadership
or Etiquette skills, reduce the number of 1s required to
glitch the test by 1. Gamemasters should call for more
Social Tests for characters with Social Stress to deter-
mine how a character reacts to others, particularly if a
situation related to the cause of their stress arises.
SPIRIT BANE
BONUS: 7 KARMA
A character with a Spirit Bane really torques off a
certain type of spirit (p. 303). Whether the charac-
ter has a reputation for harming this sort of spirit or
something about her aura enrages them, spirits of the
type affected by the Spirit Bane are likely to harass the
character when she is in their presence, and they may
be reluctant to obey or perform favors for the charac-
ter or her friends. If spirits of this type are ordered to
attack a party that includes the character, these spirits
will single her out and attempt to destroy her first. Af-
fected spirits will always use lethal force against these
characters with the Spirit Bane quality. If the character
with Spirit Bane tries to summon or bind this spirit,
she suffers a –2 dice pool modifier for the attempt. If
the summoner tries to banish a spirit of this type, the
spirit receives a +2 dice pool modifier for resisting her
attempt. Watchers and minions do not count for Spirit
Bane, as they are constructs that are not summoned
like normal spirits.
This quality may only be taken by magic users. Magic
users may possess this quality for a type of spirit that is
not a part of their magical tradition.
UNCOUTH
BONUS: 14 KARMA
The character with the Uncouth quality has difficulty
interacting with others. He acts impulsively, overreacts
to any perceived provocation, and tends to do whatev-
er pops into his head without considering the conse-
quences (i.e., flipping off Mr. Johnson, calling a drunk
troll a “Trog,” or responding to casual trash talk from
a rival runner by punching her in the face). All Social
Tests made by the character to resist acting improperly
or impulsively receive a –2 dice pool modifier.
Additionally, the cost for learning or improving So-
cial Skills is double for Uncouth characters (including
at character creation), and they may never learn any
Social skill groups. Uncouth characters are treated as
“unaware” in any Social skills that they do not possess
at Rating 1 or higher (see Skill Ratings, p. 129). The
gamemaster may require the character to make Suc-
cess Tests for social situations that pose no difficulty
for normal characters.
UNEDUCATED
BONUS: 8 KARMA
An Uneducated character is not mentally impaired—she
just never had the opportunity to learn. Whether because
she and her family were isolated squatters, or were SIN-
less, or otherwise underprivileged, she was denied ac-
cess to the education system. She has only a rudimentary
knowledge of reading, writing, and arithmetic.
Characters with the Uneducated quality are con-
sidered “unaware” in Technical, Academic Knowledge,
and Professional Knowledge skills they do not possess
(see Skill Ratings, p. 129), and they may not default on
skill tests for those skills. The gamemaster may also re-
quire the character to make Success Tests for ordinary
tasks that the typical sprawl-dweller takes for granted.
Additionally, the Karma cost for learning new skills or
improving existing ones in these categories is twice
the normal rating (including at character creation), and
it’s possible the character will never learn some skill
groups belonging to these categories.
UNSTEADY HANDS
BONUS: 7 KARMA
A character with Unsteady Hands has mild shakes that
affect the dexterity and finesse in his hands. The char-
acter suffers a –2 dice pool modifier for all Agility-based
tests when symptoms manifest themselves. The con-
dition could be physiological (an untreated genetic
disorder or damaged nerves, for example), caused by
psychological trauma, or even be symptomatic of age.
Certain augmentations or medications can mask these
symptoms under normal circumstances. Under more
stressful situations in the course of the run, there is a
chance the Unsteady Hands condition can reappear.
The character makes an Agility + Body (4) Test follow-
ing a stressful encounter (combat, for example). A suc-
cessful test means the character does not experience
the symptoms of this condition (this time). A failed test
causes the difficulties associated with unsteady hands
to re-emerge, and they remain with the character for
the remainder of the run.
WEAK IMMUNE SYSTEM
BONUS: 10 KARMA
A character with a Weak Immune System has reduced
resistance to infections and disease. Increase the Power
of any disease by +2 for every Resistance Test. A charac-
ter with Weak Immune System cannot take the Natural
Immunity or Resistance to Pathogens/Toxins qualities. A
Weak Immune System often results from immune-sup-
pression treatments used in cybersurgery and bio-ge-
netic procedures, so it is reasonable to believe that
characters that have undergone extensive body modifi-
cations are more likely to acquire this quality.
